it is a racemate composed of equimolar concentrations of (S)- and (R)-it. It is obtained from deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna) and other plants of the family Solanaceae. It has a role as a muscarinic antagonist, an anaesthesia adjuvant, an anti-arrhythmia drug, a mydriatic agent, a parasympatholytic, a bronchodilator agent, a plant metabolite, an antidote to sarin poisoning and a oneirogen. It contains a (S)-it and a (R)-it. it Sulfate is the sulfate salt of it, a naturally-occurring alkaloid isolated from the plant Atropa belladonna. it functions as a sympathetic, competitive antagonist of muscarinic cholinergic receptors, thereby abolishing the effects of parasympathetic stimulation. This agent may induce tachycardia, inhibit secretions, and relax smooth muscles. (NCI04) it is a synthetically-derived form of the endogenous alkaloid isolated from the plant Atropa belladonna. it functions as a sympathetic, competitive antagonist of muscarinic cholinergic receptors, thereby abolishing the effects of parasympathetic stimulation. This agent may induce tachycardia, inhibit secretions, and relax smooth muscles. (NCI04) Hyoscyamine is a belladonna alkaloid derivative and the levorotatory form of racemic it isolated from the plants Hyoscyamus niger or Atropa belladonna, which exhibits anticholinergic activity. Hyoscyamine functions as a non-selective, competitive antagonist of muscarinic receptors, thereby inhibiting the parasympathetic activities of acetylcholine on the salivary, bronchial, and sweat glands, as well as the eye, heart, bladder, and gastrointestinal tract. These inhibitory effects cause a decrease in saliva, bronchial mucus, gastric juices, and sweat. Furthermore, its inhibitory action on smooth muscle prevents bladder contraction and decreases gastrointestinal motility. Hyoscyamine Sulfate is the sulfate salt of a belladonna alkaloid derivative and the levorotatory form of racemic it isolated from the plants Hyoscyamus niger or Atropa belladonna, which exhibits anticholinergic activity. Hyoscyamine functions as a non-selective, competitive antagonist of muscarinic receptors, thereby inhibiting the parasympathetic activities of acetylcholine on the salivary, bronchial, and sweat glands, as well as the eye, heart, bladder, and gastrointestinal tract. These inhibitory effects cause a decrease in saliva, bronchial mucus, gastric juices, and sweat. Furthermore, its inhibitory action on smooth muscle prevents bladder contraction and decreases gastrointestinal motility. 
