To date, it has been used in trials studying the treatment of B-All, Myelofibrosis, Ovarian Cancer, Multiple Myeloma, and Hodgkin Lymphoma, among others.  As of October 31, 2017 the FDA approved Astra Zeneca's orally administered it (it). This Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma, and in adult patients with Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) who have already received at least one prior therapy.  Also known as it, it is also considered a second generation BTK inhibitor because it was rationally designed to be more potent and selective than ibrutinib, theoretically expected to demonstrate fewer adverse effects owing to minimized bystander effects on targets other than BTK.  Nevertheless, it was approved under the FDA's accelerated approval pathway, which is based upon overall response rate and faciliates earlier approval of medicines that treat serious conditions or/and that fill an unmet medical need based on a surrogate endpoint. Continued approval for it's currently accepted indication may subsequently be contingent upon ongoing verification and description of clinical benefit in confimatory trials.  Furthermore, the FDA granted this medication Priority Review and Breakthrough Therapy designations. It also received Orphan Drug designation, which provides incentives to assist and encourage the development of drugs for rare diseases. At this time, more than 35 clinical trials across 40 countries with more than 2500 patients are underway or have been completed with regards to further research into better understanding and expanding the therapeutic uses of it. it is an orally available inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, it inhibits the activity of BTK and prevents the activation of the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling pathway. This prevents both B-cell activation and BTK-mediated activation of downstream survival pathways. This leads to an inhibition of the growth of malignant B cells that overexpress BTK. BTK, a member of the src-related BTK/Tec family of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases, is overexpressed in B-cell malignancies; it plays an important role in B lymphocyte development, activation, signaling, proliferation and survival. 
