it is a member of the class of phenylethanolamines that is catechol substuted at position 5 by a 2-(tert-butylamino)-1-hydroxyethyl group. It has a role as a beta-adrenergic agonist, an EC 3.1.1.7 (acetylcholinesterase) inhibitor, an anti-asthmatic drug, a bronchodilator agent, a sympathomimetic agent, a tocolytic agent and a hypoglycemic agent. It is a member of phenylethanolamines and a member of resorcinols. it Sulfate is the sulfate salt form of it, an ethanolamine derivative with bronchodilating and tocolytic properties. it sulfate selectively binds to and activates beta-2 adrenergic receptors, leading to intracellular adenyl cyclase activation via a trimeric G protein and subsequent increase in cyclic cAMP production. Increased cAMP levels result in relaxation of bronchial and vascular smooth muscle mediated through the activation of protein kinase A (PKA), which phosphorylates proteins in control of muscle tone. cAMP also inhibits calcium ion release from intracellular stores, reduces calcium entry into cells and induces the sequestration of intracellular calcium all of which aids the relaxation of airway muscles. it sulfate also increases mucociliary clearance and reduces release of inflammatory cell mediators. it is an ethanolamine derivative with bronchodilating and tocolytic activities. it selectively binds to and activates beta-2 adrenergic receptors, leading to intracellular adenyl cyclase activation via a trimeric G protein and subsequent increase in cyclic AMP (cAMP) production. Increased cAMP levels result in relaxation of bronchial and vascular smooth muscle mediated through the activation of protein kinase A (PKA), which phosphorylates proteins in control of muscle tone. cAMP also inhibits calcium ion release from intracellular stores, reduces calcium entry into cells and induces the sequestration of intracellular calcium all of which aids in the relaxation of airway muscles. it also increases mucociliary clearance and reduces release of inflammatory cell mediators. 
