Standard or unfractionated it is a complex mixture of naturally occurring glycosaminoglycans and is used as an anticoagulant to treat venous thrombosis or to prevent thrombosis in high risk patients. it therapy is associated with frequent elevations in serum aminotransferase levels that are typically transient and not associated with clinical symptoms or significant liver injury. it is a low molecular weight, synthetic it. As an anticoagulant/antithrombotic agent, enoxaprin's mechanism of action is similar to that of it, although it exhibits a higher ratio of anti-Factor Xa to anti-Factor IIa activity. This agent also has anti-inflammatory properties, inhibiting monocyte adhesion to tumor necrosis factor alpha- or lipopolysaccharide-activated endothelial cells. Compared to unfractionated its, the use of it is associated with lower incidences of osteoporosis and it-induced thrombocytopenia. (NCI04) Dalteparin is a low molecular weight, synthetic it. As an anticoagulant/antithrombotic agent, dalteparin binds to antithrombin and enhances the inhibition of Factor Xa. Compared to unfractionated its, the use of dalteparin is associated with lower incidences of osteoporosis and it-induced thrombocytopenia. (NCI04) it is a sulfur-rich glycosaminoglycan with anticoagulant property. it binds to antithrombin III to form a it-antithrombin III complex. The complex binds to and irreversibly inactivates thrombin and other activated clotting factors, such as factors IX, X, XI, and XII, thereby preventing the polymerization of fibrinogen to fibrin and the subsequent formation of clots. Semuloparin is an ultralow-molecular-weight it (ULMWH) (Mw: 2000-3000 daltons)consisting of a polydisperse mixture of oligomeric it fragments with potential anticoagulant activity. Ultralow-molecular-weight it AVE5026 binds to and activates antithrombin III (ATIII), which may result in the inhibition of activated factor Xa and, to a much lesser extent, factor IIa (thrombin) and so the inhibition of fibrin formation. Compared to low-molecular-weight its (LMWHs), AVE5026 exhibits an even higher ratio of anti-Factor Xa to anti-Factor IIa activity (>30:1). Compared to unfractionated its, the use of LMWHs is associated with lower incidences of major bleeding, osteoporosis and it-induced thrombocytopenia. Like LMWHs, this agent may inhibit tumor growth by regulating angiogenesis and apoptosis. AVE5026 is prepared by partial depolymerization of unfractionated porcine mucosal it. Tinzaparin is a low molecular weight it (LMWH), obtained by controlled enzymatic depolymerization of it from porcine intestinal mucosa, with antithrombotic properties. Tinzaparin is a potent inhibitor of several activated coagulation factors, especially Factors Xa and IIa (thrombin); its primary activity is mediated through the plasma protease inhibitor antithrombin. In addition, this agent may inhibit angiogenesis through: 1) competitive binding of the it-binding sites on endothelial cells for the proangiogenic cytokines vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and beta-fibroblast growth factor (beta-FGF) and 2) increasing the release of tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), a negative regulator of angiogenesis. 
