it is a tetracyclic antibacterial agent derived from it, being a glycoside ester of neamine and neobiosamine B. It has a role as an antibacterial drug, an allergen and an Escherichia coli metabolite. It is a conjugate base of a it(6+). it is an aminoglycoside antibiotic isolated from Streptomyces lavendulae (decaris), mainly containing it, with broad-spectrum antibacterial activity. it is used mostly as a topical preparation and is poorly absorbed. Upon parenteral administration, this agent can cause nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity. it Sulfate is the sulfate salt form of it, a broad spectrum aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from Streptomyces fradiae with antibacterial activity. it is an antibiotic complex consisting of 3 components: the two isomeric components B and C are the active components, and it A is the minor component. it irreversibly binds to the 16S rRNA and S12 protein of the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit. As a result, this agent interferes with the assembly of initiation complex between mRNA and the bacterial ribosome, thereby inhibiting the initiation of protein synthesis. In addition, it induces misreading of the mRNA template and causes translational frameshift, thereby results in premature termination. This eventually leads to bacterial cell death. it is a broad spectrum aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from Streptomyces fradiae with antibacterial activity. it is an antibiotic complex consisting of 3 components: the two isomeric components B and C are the active components, and it A is the minor component. it irreversibly binds to the 16S rRNA and S12 protein of the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit. As a result, this agent interferes with the assembly of initiation complex between mRNA and the bacterial ribosome, thereby inhibiting the initiation of protein synthesis. In addition, it induces misreading of the mRNA template and causes translational frameshift, thereby results in premature termination. This eventually leads to bacterial cell death. it Sulfate is the sulfate salt form of it, an aminoglycoside antibiotic isolated from Streptomyces lavendulae (decaris), mainly containing it, with broad-spectrum antibacterial activity. it is used mostly as a topical preparation and is poorly absorbed. Upon parenteral administration, this agent can cause nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity. 
