it, also known as it or it, is a non-psychoactive cannabinoid found within [DB14009]. It is one of over 100 cannabinoids identified from the Cannabis plant that can modulate the physiological activity of cannabis, or marijuana. Compared to its homolog, [DB09061], it is shortened by two methyl (CH2) groups on its side chain. Notably, both [DB09061] and it have demonstrated anticonvulsant activity in animal and human models and are demonstrating promising clinical trial results. Other cannabinoids with some evidence of anti-epileptic activity include [DB11755] (THCV) and Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid.  While the primary components of cannabis, CBD and THC, have been shown to modulate many of their physiological effects through their binding to the cannabinoid-1 (CB1R) and cannabinoid-2 (CB2R) receptors, the investigational cannabinoids with anticonvulsant action mostly use mechanisms that do not involve these two endocannabinoid receptors.  The anti-epileptic activity of CBD and it is thought to be modulated by their effects on transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1  (TRPV1), also known as the capsaicin receptor, which is a member of a large family of ion channels that are involved in the onset and progression of several types of epilepsy. CBD and it have been shown to dose-dependently activate and then desensitize TRPV1 as well as TRPV2 and TRPA1 channels. Desensitization of these ion channels is a potential mechanism by which these molecules cause a reduction of neuronal hyperexcitability that contributes to epileptic activity and seizures.   it has also been shown to inhibit the activity of diacylglycerol (DAG) lipase-α, the primary enzyme responsible for the synthesis of the endocannabinoid, 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG). The clinical implications of this are unclear however, as this interaction has not been shown to affect it's anticonvulsant activity.  it is being actively developed by GW Pharmaceuticals as the experimental compound GWP42006 as it has \ 
